# Best-location-for-new-stores
Case description

Client Request: You are asked to perform an analysis of market potential for a client in the retail sector. The client wants to know the customer trade area of the stores in his current network and asks us for advice on choosing the best location for new stores.

Your task: You are provided with geomarketing data on the sales of the client which you should combine with open data sources. Based on this data you have to estimate a statistical model that explains the market share of the clients shops. The model should then be used to evaluate the market potential and market share of at least 10 candidate points for new shops. For the evaluation of the market potential and the market share you should restrict your attention to the customer trade area which you have to construct for all stores. On top of the market share you should then find at least two additional additional criteria that allow to rank the candidate shops. The choice of these additional criteria is up to you and your creativity is explicitly appreciated. (A boring example would be maximal market share under the constraint that we want at least 50 000€ of sales.) The results are presented to the client in form of a shiny application. This application should show the clients current network of shops and at least the best and worst among the candidate positions for new shops. It should also provide information on the market share and sales of the best and worst candidates stores. Main Steps Data Preparation You have to prepare all the data on the existing shops that is required to estimate the statistical models. Then you have to prepare the data for the new candidates that you will use for predictions. You can select the candidates randomly from the SIRENE data-base or design algorithms to select them. For this you have to find suitable variables among the open data sources (e.g.: INSEE Bloc 200m, INSEE IRIS, SIRENE, OpenStreetMap, . . . ), choose the right aggregation levels and combine them with the sales data. You also have to construct a distance metric that could be geometric (e.g.: euclidean or great circle distance) or the real/time distance on the road network.

Statistical model and optimization You have to choose the a statistical model that can be estimated on the current set of shops and allows to predict the market share of the new candidates. Then you have to think about the additional criteria that allow you to rank of the new candidate shops and to identify the best and worst among them.
